And anything fleeing from the kraits
will swim straight into the mouths of the waiting trevally.
There's nowhere to hide.
And there are snakes here, too.
Lots of them.
These are banded sea kraits.
They lay their eggs on land,
but they hunt here in the water.
They're too slow to catch fish in the straight chase,
so they seek prey that is hiding in the nooks
and crannies of the coral.
Their bite is highly venomous
and paralyses their victims.
And on this reef,
the snakes do not hunt alone.
Shoals of yellow goatfish and trevally
are seeking similar prey
and they attract the snake's attention.
As one group of hunters searches the reef,
they're joined by the other.
At least 30 snakes have now joined the caravan.
The big fish scare the prey into cracks.
And there the snakes can catch them.
And anything fleeing from the kraits,
will swim straight into the mouths of the waiting trevally.
There's nowhere to hide.
As the raiders scour the reef,
more and more snakes join the hunt.
This cooperation between snakes and fish,
spectacular though it is,
has only recently been observed.
For it only happens on the most
remote reefs in Indonesia.
Perhaps such hunting alliances
were once a common sight.
But today, no more than 6% of Indonesia's reefs
are in their pristine state.